README.md, before:

# Dcashier-program

A brief description of your project and its purpose.

## Features

*   Enhanced User Interface (UI) and User Experience (UX) for intuitive navigation and modern look.
*   Product Management (Add, Edit, Delete, Inline Editing)
*   Cashier System (Sales, Cart, Payment, Barcode Scanning)
*   Comprehensive Sales Reports (Daily Sales, Top Products, Transaction History)
*   Dark Mode Toggle for comfortable viewing.
*   Tabbed navigation for easy access to different functionalities.

## Technologies Used

*   **Frontend:**
    *   React.js
    *   TypeScript
    *   React-Bootstrap
    *   React-Bootstrap-Icons
    *   React-Toastify
*   **Backend:**
    *   Node.js
    *   Express.js
    *   TypeScript
    *   SQLite3

## Installation

Follow these steps to run the project locally:

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have Node.js and npm installed on your system.

*   [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (LTS version recommended)

### Steps

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/jimbon25/Dcashier-program.git
    cd Dcashier-program
    ```

2.  **Install Backend dependencies:**
    ```bash
    cd backend
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Run Backend:**
    ```bash
    npm start
    ```
    The backend will run on `http://localhost:3001`.

4.  **Install Frontend dependencies:**
    Open a new terminal, then:
    ```bash
    cd ../frontend
    npm install
    ```

5.  **Run Frontend:**
    ```bash
    npm start
    ```
    The frontend application will open in your browser, usually at `http://localhost:3000`.

## Usage

*   **Sales:** Use the "Sales" tab to view product listings, add to cart, and process payments.
*   **Product Management:** Use the "Product Management" tab to add, edit, or delete products.
*   **Reports:** Use the "Reports" tab to view sales summaries, daily reports, top products, and transaction history.
*   **Dark Mode:** Click the moon/sun icon in the top right corner to switch between light and dark modes.

## Contributing

Contributions are highly appreciated! If you'd like to contribute, please fork this repository and create a Pull Request with your features or bug fixes.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.

## Contact

*   **GitHub:** [jimbon25](https://github.com/jimbon25)

Commit message:

Docs: Update project description in README.md
Memperbarui deskripsi proyek di README.md untuk memberikan gambaran yang lebih jelas tentang aplikasi dan status beta-nya.

README.md, after:

# Dcashier-program

Dcashier-program is a modern and intuitive cashier application designed to streamline product management, sales processes, and transaction reporting. This project is currently in its **beta phase** and **under active testing and development**. It features barcode scanning, stock tracking, and daily sales reports, aiming to enhance operational efficiency for retail businesses.

## Features

*   Enhanced User Interface (UI) and User Experience (UX) for intuitive navigation and modern look.
*   Product Management (Add, Edit, Delete, Inline Editing)
*   Cashier System (Sales, Cart, Payment, Barcode Scanning)
*   Comprehensive Sales Reports (Daily Sales, Top Products, Transaction History)
*   Dark Mode Toggle for comfortable viewing.
*   Tabbed navigation for easy access to different functionalities.

## Technologies Used

*   **Frontend:**
    *   React.js
    *   TypeScript
    *   React-Bootstrap
    *   React-Bootstrap-Icons
    *   React-Toastify
*   **Backend:**
    *   Node.js
    *   Express.js
    *   TypeScript
    *   SQLite3

## Installation

Follow these steps to run the project locally:

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have Node.js and npm installed on your system.

*   [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (LTS version recommended)

### Steps

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/jimbon25/Dcashier-program.git
    cd Dcashier-program
    ```

2.  **Install Backend dependencies:**
    ```bash
    cd backend
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Run Backend:**
    ```bash
    npm start
    ```
    The backend will run on `http://localhost:3001`.

4.  **Install Frontend dependencies:**
    Open a new terminal, then:
    ```bash
    cd ../frontend
    npm install
    ```

5.  **Run Frontend:**
    ```bash
    npm start
    ```
    The frontend application will open in your browser, usually at `http://localhost:3000`.

## Usage

*   **Sales:** Use the "Sales" tab to view product listings, add to cart, and process payments.
*   **Product Management:** Use the "Product Management" tab to add, edit, or delete products.
*   **Reports:** Use the "Reports" tab to view sales summaries, daily reports, top products, and transaction history.
*   **Dark Mode:** Click the moon/sun icon in the top right corner to switch between light and dark modes.

## Contributing

Contributions are highly appreciated! If you'd like to contribute, please fork this repository and create a Pull Request with your features or bug fixes.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.

## Contact

*   **GitHub:** [jimbon25](https://github.com/jimbon25)
